.TH vaulted\-env 1
.SH NAME
.PP
vaulted env \- outputs shell commands that load secrets for a vault into the shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCvaulted env\fR \fIname\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.br
\fB\fCvaulted env \-\-assume\fR \fIarn\fP [\fIOPTIONS\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Creates an environment using variables and the AWS key stored in the vault. The
resulting environment variables are used to generate shell commands that will
load the secrets into a shell.
.PP
The shell is autodetected from the \fB\fCSHELL\fR environment variable, if the shell
is unknown or unspecified, \fB\fCsh\fR compatible commands are emitted.
.PP
\fINote:\fP SSH keys are ignored when generating environments this way. This is due
to the inability to track the lifetime of the environment, which means the SSH
agent would exist indefinitely.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-assume\fR \fIarn\fP
Specifies the full ARN of the role to assume. See \fBASSUMING A ROLE\fP below
for details on how Vaulted assumes roles.
.IP
Role assumption may be performed without specifying a vault to spawn from.
When invoked this way, credentials are sourced from default locations (e.g.
environment, configuration files, instance profile, etc.).
.TP
\fB\fC\-\-format\fR <shell,fish,sh,json,\fIcustom\fP>
Specify what format to use, defaults to \fB\fCshell\fR which will autodetect which
shell format to emit.
.IP
\fB\fCfish\fR, and \fB\fCsh\fR will emit output suitable for evaluation into the specified
shell. \fB\fCjson\fR will emit the map of values to be set in a format useful in
other programming environments, this will not include the array of variables
to be removed.
.IP
If the format string supplied does not match one of the pre\-defined formats
it will be interpreted as a text template using golang's built\-in
\fB\fCtext/template\fR package. The user template will be supplied a struct with the
fields outlined below. Also available are a \fB\fCreplace\fR function for gsub like
behavior and a \fB\fCjson\fR function which accepts a value and emits a pretty
printed JSON string.
.IP
To receive just the names of the variables to remove formatted as JSON the
custom template would be: \fB\fC{{ json .Unset }}\fR
.TS
allbox;
cb cb cb
l l l
l l l
l l l
.
Field Name	Type	Notes
Set	map[string]string	A map of environment variables to be set along with their values
Unset	[]string	A slice of variables to be removed from the environment before setting new values
Command	string	The full command line used to invoke vaulted including options
.TE
.SH AWS KEY
.PP
Vaulted uses permanent credentials stored in the vault to generate temporary
credentials using AWS STS. The resulting credentials are configured to last for
the duration of the vault session (configured via \fB\fCvaulted edit\fR).
.PP
Temporary credentials must be used in order to assume a role.
.PP
\fINote:\fP because Vaulted defaults to substituting permanent credentials with
temporary credentials, the credentials you provide to Vaulted may not match
those in a spawned environment.
.PP
Vaulted uses AWS standard environment variables for credentials:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCAWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID\fR
.br
An identifier for the access key. Unique to each set of permanent or
temporary credentials.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCAWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY\fR
.br
The secret used to sign requests. Unique to each set of permanent or
temporary credentials.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCAWS_SESSION_TOKEN\fR / \fB\fCAWS_SECURITY_TOKEN\fR
.br
Provided when using temporary credentials. \fB\fCAWS_SECURITY_TOKEN\fR is provided
to support legacy SDKs.
.RE
.SH ASSUMING A ROLE
.PP
A role to assume can be specified either in a vault's configuration (via
\fB\fCvaulted edit\fR) or specified via the \fB\fC\-\-assume\fR option.
.PP
Vaulted first generates and caches a session for the vault (assuming a vault
\fIname\fP was specified) and uses the resulting session to perform the assume role
call. This allows the session to be cached for a longer duration than the assume
roll call will allow (maximum of 1 hour). This also means that the assume role
call is performed each time a new environment is spawned from the session.
.PP
When assuming a role, the maximum duration of the resulting credentials is 1
hour, regardless of the duration specified in the vault's configuration.
.PP
In addition to the variables specified above, Vaulted provides additional
environment variables with information about the role:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCVAULTED_ENV_ROLE_ARN\fR
.br
The full ARN of the role assumed.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCVAULTED_ENV_ROLE_ACCOUNT_ID\fR
.br
The account ID specified by the role ARN.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCVAULTED_ENV_ROLE_NAME\fR
.br
The name of the role specified by the role ARN.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB\fCVAULTED_ENV_ROLE_PATH\fR
.br
The path of the role specified by the role ARN.
.RE
.PP
For example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
vaulted shell \-\-assume arn:aws:iam::111222333444:role/SuperRole
.fi
.RE
.PP
would result in the following variables being available in {{.Set}}:
.PP
.RS
.nf
VAULTED_ENV_ROLE_ARN=arn:aws:iam::111222333444:role/SuperRole
VAULTED_ENV_ROLE_ACCOUNT_ID=111222333444
VAULTED_ENV_ROLE_NAME=SuperRole
VAULTED_ENV_ROLE_PATH=/
.fi
.RE
