.TH vaulted\-edit 1
.SH NAME
.PP
vaulted edit \- interactively edits the content of an existing vault
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCvaulted edit\fR \fIname\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Spawns an interactve mode for editing the content of an existing vault.
.PP
Upon quitting, the new content is saved to the vault.
.SH GLOBAL
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
S \- Show/Hide Secrets
.br
Toggles whether secret values are displayed when viewing vault details
in the edit menu. This setting is global and affects the entire editing
session and is reset to hidden each time the vault is reopened for
editing.
.RE
.SH AWS KEY
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
k \- Key
.br
Manages Access Key ID and Secret Access Key credentials.
.IP \(bu 2
m \- MFA
.br
Manages MFA (multi\-factor authentication) ARN or serial number. If enabled,
user will be prompted to enter MFA code when accessing vault. MFA will
remain active for the vault duration.
.br
If you are using STS credentials, which occurs by default (see the 't'
option below for details), you must have MFA enabled to invoke any IAM calls.
.IP \(bu 2
r \- Role
.br
ARN of role to be assumed when accessing vault.
When assuming a role, the maximum duration allowed by AWS is 1 hour. If your
duration is greater than 1 hour when setting a role, the duration will be
adjusted to 1 hour.
.IP \(bu 2
t \- Substitute with temporary credentials
.br
Toggles whether your AWS credentials are substituted with a set of temporary
credentials. For more details on this process, see the documentation for
\fB\fCvaulted shell\fR\&.
.IP \(bu 2
D \- Delete
.br
Removes all AWS details stored in the vault.
.RE
.SH SSH KEYS
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
a \- Add
.br
Manages SSH keys loaded into the agent when a session starts.
.IP \(bu 2
g \- Generate Key
.br
Generates a dynamic, in\-memory SSH key that will be stored for the vault
duration. This is particularly useful when coupled with SSH key signing.
.IP \(bu 2
v \- HashiCorp Vault Signing URL
.br
The HashiCorp Vault URL to configure SSH key signing. This URL can be an
absolute path, or if the VAULT_ADDR environment variable is set you may
provide this as a relative path to join the two.
.IP \(bu 2
u \- HashiCorp Vault User Principals
.br
Configures the user principals that keys will be signed for when SSH key
signing is enabled through HashiCorp Vault.
.IP \(bu 2
E \- Expose external SSH agent
.br
Toggles whether or not to expose an external SSH agent configured via
the SSH\fIAUTH\fPSOCK environment variable to the spawned vault session.
.IP \(bu 2
D \- Delete
.br
Removes a specified SSH key from the list.
.RE
